
**What is the Last of Venus? 
**
The Last of Venus is an ongoing computer vision application that scans a user’s photo and uses skin detection to output an illustration from already made anime images that best matches it. It pulls on computer vision libaries such as cv and facial_recognition to acheive this. Currently, I am training it on more advanced model so that the model doesn’t just detect aspects of the face such as skin tone but also hair color, texture, and intensity using Python Tensor Flow's pre-trained objection detection models. Additionally, while there are only 19 images stored on the application, I plan to increase the number to allow for more diverse results in the user's experience. 


**What is the story behind "The Last of Venus"?
**

Many months ago, I witnessed the biased TikTok filter that scans a user’s face and outputs a corresponding anime illustration. Many users, including myself, saw how when Black women or women of darker complexion used the filter they were rendered with an animal illustration or a man. While women of lighter skin tones that exhibit more eurocentric features were met with beautiful anime illustrations. Consequently, this experience stuck with me. 

The film "Coded Bias," directed by Shalini Kantayya, featuring Joy Buolamwini, highlights the gender and racial biases present in widely used facial recognition systems. Additionally, it reflects the increasing integration of AI into recreational and artistic domains, as discussed by a speaker in Coded Bias, whose work emphasizes the potential biases embedded in AI algorithms and the ethical implications of deploying AI in various aspects of life. Therefore, the anime transformation filter, inspired by this perspective, seeks to address the potential biases in image processing algorithms, particularly in the representation of individuals, and aims to provide a positive and inclusive experience for people interacting with filters like these in their everyday lives. 

Additionally, in the article “Venus in Two Acts,” Saidiya Hartman recounts the fatal story of two Black girls, one denoted the name Venus, aboard a slave ship as she writes “In the end, I could say no more about Venus than I had said about her friend: ‘I am unsure if it is possible to salvage an existence from a handful of words: the supposed murder of a negro girl’ ” (9). She further explains the information deficit she faces when attempting to record the story of the two girls. Throughout the article, the audience can infer the pattern of women’s names who are written but whose voices are never heard, ultimately reflecting a scarcity of Black female narratives. Furthermore, Venus symbolizes the historical representation of Black women, someone who has endured hardship and/or made a great impact but is, at most, briefly mentioned. Her story highlights the limited agency Black women have on not only their bodies but also their narratives and global perception. Therefore, I wanted to name this web application “The Last of Venus” because I wanted the TikTok filter to be the last of such media that promotes the inferiority of the Venuses in the past and of our time. Ultimately, I wanted to build a tech device that would no longer give in to the dehumanization or erasure of Black women and the dimensions of their beauty.
